# AI-Based Therapeutic Image Generation Using Stable Diffusion

**Abstract -**
In the contemporary landscape of mental health, the urgency for accessible and personalized 
interventions is heightened by the increasing prevalence of anxiety disorders. This project 
introduces a pioneering artificial intelligence (AI) system designed to generate personalized 
therapeutic visuals and narratives, catering to individual preferences and psychological needs. 
The system leverages cutting-edge technologies including reinforcement learning (RL), 
generative adversarial networks (GANs), and image generation algorithms such as Stable 
Diffusion. By integrating user inputs—preferences for specific themes such as animals, shapes, 
and nature—the AI tailors its output to enhance comfort and emotional support. This approach 
is underpinned by principles of positive psychology, mindfulness, and cognitive-behavioral 
therapy, further enriched by the integration of thematic music and AI-generated storytelling. 
The system’s unique feature, an SOS functionality, allows users to instantly generate 
therapeutic content during acute anxiety episodes, providing immediate relief. This review 
synthesizes various methodologies from existing literature to propose a model that not only 
adapts to user preferences over time but also contributes significantly to the field of mental 
health by offering a non-invasive, adaptive, and user-centered tool for anxiety management. 

**Keywords:** artificial intelligence, mental health, anxiety management, personalized therapy, 
image generation, reinforcement learning, generative adversarial networks, user-centered 
design.

**Block Diagram -**
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5d736c3f-4523-488a-9780-d1ae9aac25e8)

**System Architecture -**
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/07eff828-a329-4240-a44e-cec3d29f48bb)

**System Deployment diagram -**
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/da59e357-570c-4eaa-8b53-edb91ae34298)

**Application User Interface for Questionnaire -**
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b1c0b03-d272-449c-9407-bf5b581c88da)

**Sample AI-generated Therapeutic Images-**
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8f9f7197-78b1-42ba-ab45-1f5316730a81)

**Execution Time difference between CPU and GPU -**
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8ea23d5c-83e9-4fcf-8614-f9d0c1f59c9e)



